The AI/ML side:
This code scrapes the rss news of the listed financial institutions (banks) and financial news sites.
Then, sorts the text according to categories and sub-categories, summarises the news article into a shorter form (by BART).
Then, all the news articles within the sub-category are combined into one text chunk and summarised into a sub-category-wide summary (by Gemma-3-27b).
Then, the shorter form (by BART) is classified under 'title' (because in a prior version the variable was used for something else and changing it to Summary would be time consuming), the Gemma-3 summary, BART summary, categories, sub-categories, feed links, original articles are packaged into a dictionary.
Then, an overall summary for all of the news articles are created (executive summary).
Then, the executive summary, a dataframe of all articles (df_all) and the aforementioned dictionary are exported into 3 .pkl files for the flask website to import.



The Website side:

-> Use v2.3.1 if in colab, v2.5.1 (lean) dev if using Google Cloud's Vertex AI's Colab Enterprise (You can use Colab Enterprise's scheduler and a no GPU runtime to set up the website)

->The index/homepage displays the results of processing using AI/ML. NOTE: the article's "title" (which is actually the BART summary as mentioned) is displayed under Summary in the HTML and the "summary" (which is actually the Original article) is displayed under Original Article.

->The /gpt_qna and /predict pages allow access to Gemma 3-27b and the previously scraped articles inside df_all. First, the keyword inserted inside "Ingest" textbox is used to find all articles (within df_all) with the keyword, the articles and the question inserted in prompted question are both fed into Gemma 3-27b model. The creativity is adjustable. All of this is done with prompt engineering and occurs within the prompt. The model will be prompted with the articles and question, once with a prompt suggesting the model should give a concise summary and once with a prompt suggesting the model should reply with a longer executive summary. The responses are displayed.

->The /pandas and /ask pages allow the user to insert a url and after using newspaper4k to convert the url into text, Gemma 3-27b shall read the text, reply with a string consisting of all numerical values detected and the label. The reply would be cleaned and displayed in a plotly bar chart. Optional choices: If the World bank option is selected, the Gemma 3-27b model will be given 3 separate decisions, once to choose relevant world bank indicator sources, once to choose a list of countries and once to choose relevant indicators (after the choice of sources is used to create a list of available indicators for each source). The indicators would be checked for the possibility of being archived or deleted and must have at least one row of data before being visualised in a plotly line graph. The slider allows the user to limit the number of data sources chosen. If the Description is selected, an interpretation of the line chart will be generated by Gemma 3-27b.

Usually the process of converting a news website (if newspaper4k could infact download it) to bar chart without the additional options is: 10-20 seconds. With world bank charts, it is usually 19 - 24 seconds. With chart description, it is usually 40 - 60 seconds (as the Gemma 3 model would need to read an entire dataframe and the article)

->The /find and /search pages allow the user to use DuckDuckGo to scrape news websites for a keyword, aggregate the descriptions and summarise them into a concise abstract, a detailed explanation and strategies (using Gemma 3-27b). There are options regarding the aggregation process like modifying the initial sample size used to determine the main categories/topic and number of articles scraped per category to investigate deeper. There are the same options with world bank charts.

Usually the process of scraping news articles' descriptions and summarising them takes: 48 - 66 seconds. With charts, it takes around 120 seconds. With charts and description: takes 240 seconds. Expectedly, the higher amount for sample size and scraped articles, the longer it takes.

RUN the .py file in Google Colab only, the 3 .pkl files in files browser. You will need ngrok token in the last few lines of code and also a paid colab subscription for google.colab.ai to work (requires notebook's auth with google)




To See my website:

https://misanthropic-margarito-nonexcitative.ngrok-free.dev

OR

https://news.ngrok.dev

#Singapore Copyright Act 2021:
https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/CA2021

I am not copyrighting the property (AI models) of the companies involved (facebook, google). The application of these AI models in the form of a website that summarises news articles is mine.

Does the creator need to register the literary work, source code, programme, etc with authorities in Singapore?
https://ask.gov.sg/ipos/questions/clhersmdj0002mu0827iemc5a

Copyright-Refers to protection of literary works (for example: books, drawings, music, website):
Copyright protects literary works like novels, plays, drawings, paintings, sheet music, computer programme, websites. Generally, the author of a copyright work has the right to reproduce, publish, perform, communicate and adapt his work. These different exclusive rights form the bundle of rights that we call copyright.  An author automatically enjoys copyright protection as soon as he creates and expresses his original work in a tangible form, such as in a recording or writing. Originality simply means that there is a degree of independent effort in the creation of the work. 

In Singapore, there is no need to file for registration to get copyright protection.  However, there are a number of ways that you could preserve your interests.  You may,
Deposited a copy of your work with your lawyers or in a depository
Sent a copy of your work to yourself by post leaving the envelope unopened so that the date stamp and the unopened work could establish the date of the work’s existence
Made a declaration before a Commissioner of Oaths stating the facts of ownership and the date of creation

As the copyright owner, you will enjoy the exclusive rights to :
reproduce the work;
publish the work if the work is unpublished;
perform the work in public;
communicate the work to the public; and
make an adaptation of the work
